The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Italian life in the Risorgimento
(1849-1861), Part I, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Italian lives in the Risorgimento (1849-1861), Part I
       Fourth series - History

Author: Various

Release Date: March 22, 2016 [EBook # 51526]

Language: Italian

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ITALIAN LIFE (1849-1861), PART I ***




Produced by Carlo Traverso, Barbara Magni and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at DP-test Italy,
http://dp-test.dm.unipi.it, and at http://www.pgdp.net
(This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive)






                                   THERE
                             ITALIAN LIFE
                                  IN
                              RISORGIMENTO

                              (1849-1861)

                              FOURTH SERIES


                                   THE.

                                 HISTORY


   Federation and Unit ERNESTO MASI.
   The heroes of the Revolution FRANCIS S. Nitti.
   From ten days of Brescia to battle
     St. Martin Pompeo Molmenti.
   The gentleman king DOMENICO OLIVE.



                                FLORENCE
                          R. BEMPORAD & SON
                             BOOKSELLERS-EDITORS
                                  1901




                          LITERARY PROPERTY

                       ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

      _The Editori_ R. BEMPORAD & SON counterfeit _dichiarano
            all copies not bearing the following signature: _

     [Illustration: handwritten signature]

       Florence, 1901 - Company's Tip. Florence, Via S. Gallo, 33




FEDERATION AND UNITS

MASI CONFERENCE OF ERNESTO.


The February 18, 1861 were gathered for the first time in Turin Parliament
Italy - "free and united almost all," - as he said in a voice
Sound Vittorio Emanuele, and still feel the ear and the heart
those words and the burst of enthusiastic shouts, which were
accepted.

A few days later, March 17, 1861, was promulgated a law of just a
Article: "The King Vittorio Emanuele II assumes for himself and his successors
the title of King of Italy. "

In submit the project to the deputies, the Count of Cavour wrote
in the report, which precedes it: "a great Has made himself made; a new
era begins! "

And the Parliament's rapporteur, Giambattista Giorgini: "There are oases
in the deserts of the story, he said, there are in the life of the nations of
solemn moments, which could be called the _poesia of storia_;
of triumph and moments of drunkenness, in which the soul, absorbed in
This, he closes himself to regret the past, such concerns
of the future.

"Let us once justice! How many sit on these benches, all
otherwise we have been working for the same cause; we all have
brought our stone to the great edifice, under which they will rest
future generations. Here the volunteers could Calatafimi
show us the glorious scars on his chest; Here the prisoners of
Elmo, around the wrists, the callus of the heavy chains; glue here
gray hair, premature wrinkles hill, speakers, writers, apostles of that
Faith, which made the soldiers and martyrs; Here the general, who won
our battles, here statesmen, who ruled the
Our policies: here starts unanimously therefore (a) of enthusiasm cry;
Here at last the expected among nations should rise and say _Io are
Italy! _ "

Emphasis grandiloquent, but was then the season (now par
read one of the family _Epistole_, miscellaneous or senile Petrarch);
emphasis, at that time also, unusually, was perfectly correct:
the fact big and brand new in our history, the feeling of
supreme joy, which aroused in all, by the king last populate the
the presence of all the leading men, and in so many different ways you
They had cooperated. There were all actually. There was no lack Garibaldi
and Mazzini .... Too bad!

He wanted to emphasize that lack the Brofferio, old adversary
the Count of Cavour, accusing him of having this law usurped
initiative, that it was all rather the popular representation.
The Cavour felt the pinch and fiercely parried. "All the Italians,"
He replied, "played a role in the great drama of our Risorgimento, but
even if I may say, and proclaim with deep conviction; in
recent events the initiative was taken by the King's government .... It was the
government, which took the initiative of the Crimean campaign; was the government
King, who took the initiative to proclaim the right of Italy in
Congress of Paris; It was the King's government, which took the initiative of
great acts of 1859, under which Italy has established. "
Therefore, he concluded with other words, even the initiative to proclaim
national unity is up to the King's government.

Why not? He boasted perhaps the Count of Cavour? without those
initiatives, all your (and note that silent of the Marche countryside
and Umbria) the enterprise of Garibaldi in Sicily and Naples it would
I was never even possible? national unity there can be no doubt,
oldest and persevering apostle was Mazzini, and then was
he also a great coefficient of what was happening now, but who would
could seriously, in the order of the facts, comparing the work of Count
Cavour with the attempts of Mazzini from 1833 up to that time?

Except that the radical party and ultra-democratic, of which at that
when she made herself the interpreter Brofferio, he had always understood so
little the Count of Cavour seemed to him to be the greatest indictment, that is
could do, just be this, that he was not from the cradle
state and to each unit cost, which, Piedmontese monarchy and first
all, now it exploited the work of others for the benefit of the old policy
the dynastic _carciofo_, and hastened the annexations and the Italian unit
with the zeal of a neophyte, last-worker, convert from
a sudden ray of sunshine on the road to Damascus.

Albeit that if was written or said in good faith (of which it is lawful for
many to doubt) is foolish and unwise in the extreme, and does not deserve
other answer but to remember that I have myself heard
by Roger Bongos give to a friend, progressive repubblicaneggiante,
which he seemed to have found the Achilles of the arguments against the memory of
Conte di Cavour.

We walked to the middle of summer in a campaign and after much
discussed: - short, - cried the fellow, - Mazzini believed up from
1832 Italian unity and the Count of Cavour no. Now the last who
I was right? - Look; - Said the Bongos - if you at this time
you say, "I think it's snowing," for sure say nonsense. But if followed
to put it up to this winter, and it snows, as usual, and you want
brag: "you see, if I was right ?; 'How about another, and they are two. For
just today! -

So it is in reality, and leaving aside what the Conte di Cavour
he thought and believed in his youth, why would the next day
_Novara_ Be yet unitary state or federal? Who knew, after
that immense ruin of 1848 and 49, what would happen? Which
the doctrine, which had been saved? which the political party, which does not
He had been defeated, though everyone had made it their trials?
The magnitude greater, the true originality of the Count of Cavour are
precisely in that complete freedom of spirit, with which He took the company
Italian. Not a tradition worried him, not a sectarian commitment
prevented it, not an old doctrine tyrannized his thoughts.
Felt, and deeply felt, all the immense misery of life
Italian; only perhaps not felt any failure, that three centuries
servitude had caused to our character and therefore could proceed
more frank, more secure, more expeditiously than any other. Its culture was
mainly English and French; his travels had all been
abroad; Italy had almost unknown, and yet it was at the top
of every thought. This also, I would say, the benefited. Much of the
uncertainties Massimo d'Azeglio, who had lived in Rome, Florence,
Milan, in Naples, the came from knowing too well the Italian.
The bold confidence of the Count of Cavour know them by little; it has
noticed the same Garibaldi. It is a compliment to the Italians, but
more and more each passing day I believe the truth! This is why the
Conte di Cavour was among Italians such an extraordinary phenomenon. Not
only the power of the mind of all the singolareggiava. Others
men of powerful mind and in some respects superior to him,
They were not lacking to Italy. But the body itself of its
mind, the shape of its culture, the tendency, the arrangement of his
spirit, the manner in which grabs, examines, resolves all matters that
he is present, all this be her, so fundamentally different
even by the most distinguished Italian intellectual variety, it does the Count
Cavour's a phenomenon; It means that he is late on the political scene,
who in his youth and during the revolution of 1848-49 remains a bit '
secluded, that despite the perspicuity sum of its ideas and
forms, in which the exhibits, land appear for a long time to opponents
politicians, and even just friends uh, something of an enigma, to which
try a thousand absurd explanations, now a titrated anglomane (the
Brofferio and comrades called him _Lord Cavour_) now a reactionary,
now a municipalist; It causes between the same aristocracy ght think to make without the help of the king of Naples, he dared to include it
in the project, and this as well, among many, was one of the causes of
his tragic end.

The rather Rosmini, though persuasissimo of their defeat,
followed the Pope to Gaeta and persecution, that there had to suffer the
great man, and the abandonment coward in which Pius IX left him, are one
the most infamous scandals by the reaction, which now raged. The
Federal monarchical system ends up always so.

He did not have much longer Fortunately the system, unified Republican
Mazzini. To him, Triumvir in Rome in 1849, where he also thought to implement it,
He lacked the time, and even if he could overcome the repugnance of
Guerrazzi in Tuscany, those of Manin in Venice and the fact that Carlo
Alberto and his faithful Piedmont were already back and alone in
field against Austria, the unexpected need right away defense
Rome against the French, the even allow not groped.

Well as the Republic in Rome was so gloriously fallen, that a little '
This new retold glory force at the Mazzini program.

But freedom maintained in Piedmont after Novara and attempts
vanissimi of 1853, which determined many abandonments of the apostle
incorrigible, also perform the final settlement system
Republican unity.

Republican federal system almost is not necessary to speak, since
it never was that silly idea of ??some lonely, Cattaneo, Giuseppe
Ferrari and a few others, who, in the great intellectual brilliance,
This arrangement seemed more in line with national or to the character in
classic land of the cities or the most suitable to assure the peoples, if not
Another, a modest happiness. A dream that is worth another!

To all he opposed the Piedmontese hegemony, which could not have
Another risultamento unless this dilemma: _o finis Italiae_, or units
National under the Savoy monarchy. In this concept, implemented
with daring, luck and talent unmatched by the Count of Cavour,
The Italians joined in, just because it was new, precisely because in
direct contrast to all past history, precisely because liquidated
all rival forms, had been the only possible one.

The triumph of a revolution not achieved that by bending
by persuasion or by force dominating the number energies
undisciplined, that little or nothing can be broken and become
irresistible only when, or persuaded or forced, they group and
all rush to sign. So it was in England in 1688, so he was in
France in 1789, so it was in Italy in 1859 and '60.

Before such a new show, the Republican Federalist, Giuseppe
Ferrari, deputy to the first Italian Parliament and historian of ancient
Italian and implacable contradictions, looking around and seeing that
strange variety of people, from many old schools and many
political parties was preparing in 1860 to proclaim the Italian units,
warned colleagues: badassero; be they victims in the course of a
fatal delusion and star to commit such a blunder, that there
have all led to God knows what disasters.

He replied Marco Minghetti (also a recent convert
unit) that maybe the Ferrari is still believed at the time of the Guelphs
and Ghibellines, the Visconti, the Sforza and the Duke Valentino, and that in
Truth historian illustrious resembled one of those seven sleepers
of the legend, who, woken up after five centuries, neither more intended
others, nor their other.

"Maybe I've slept," replied very nearly the Ferrari,
"The magic of science sleep; but he woke up the cannon and Magenta
San Martino, and then inquired or knew afterwards that a very large
news was coming, Italian _l'unità under the monarchy
Savoia_. Go ahead! But are you quite certain that Italy is out of the
everything from the deep and murky night of his story, and entirely
changed, from that of the first? Otherwise, you who you slept, you
sleep now more than ever, and your will rouse much worse the
my. It will happen, that is, not to rouse like me
hour of victory, divine time for everyone, but if not the hour
infamous disaster and repentance, in the much more demoralizing
illusions that fade away, of discouragement, that oppress, and
of the hopes, that they fall one by one. "

We are right in this hour, sir! And if the conservative forces
the liberal monarchy, who have made the unity of the motherland, he
they are yet inert and divided, and all the solvents forces, and
overtly or covertly hostile, will be left alone instead agir
and with impunity, may well worse than the prediction come true
Giuseppe Ferrari and the problem of the history of Italy returned to
point, from which the program unit (this novelty, this glory of
Our Revolution) seemed to have suddenly forever.






